# SYNOPSIS

These are instructions on how to make a SneakerNet plugin.  It does not
matter which language the plugin is coded in.  All that matters is that
it is executable by the SneakerNet user and that it can accept certain
parameters.

## Plugin catalog

`TODO`

## How to make a plugin

Two major steps are described below for making a plugin.

### Create the script.
1. The first positional argument must be the MiSeq run directory
2. The script must accept the following flags with the following example 
     values (or no values).  The script does not necessarily need to _use_
     these flags however.
3. Add any desired soft-coded variables such as the location of a blast database
     into `config.bak/settings` and `config/settings`
4. If the plugin generates any files, please organize them into 
     `runDirectory/SneakerNet/customdirectory` (where `customdirectory` is a name of your choice), and add any results for the
     resulting email to `runDirectory/SneakerNet/forEmail`. Any files under
     this directory will be emailed with the SneakerNet email.
     To add your results to the report.html file, list your results in
     `runDirectory/SneakerNet/properties.tsv`.
5. The script can/should add its version by recording it to `runDirectory/SneakerNet/properties.tsv`.
     
|Flag|Default value|description|
|:---|:------------|:-----------|
|`--help`|         |generate a help menu|
|`--numcpus`|     1|Parallelization|
|`--debug`|        |generate more messages or any other debugging|
|`--tempdir`|automatically generated, e.g., with `File::Temp` or `mktemp`|Where temporary files are located|
|`--force`|        |This is loosely defined but can be used for many things like overwriting output files|
|`--version`|      |Print a version in the format of X.Y or X.Y.Z|
|`--citation`|     | Print a citation statement to give yourself credit. | 

### Activate the script as a plugin

1. Place it in the SneakerNet.plugins folder
2. chmod the script to be executable
3. Add the plugin to the list of plugins in `config.bak/plugins` and `config/plugins` 

### Tips for making a plugin

* Use the file `samples.tsv` which is generated by the plugin `sn_parseSampleSheet.pl`.
It describes each sample, its read filenames, etc.
* Use the plugin `sn_helloWorld.pl` as a guide.
* Start small: make the most basic plugin to start, making sure that it works.
